The Joe Rogan experience.
When we Ramadi, it was the worst place I'd ever been after I've gained.
Stan went to Iraq, excuse me, Anbar province.
Chris Kyle was there. That's when he got those.
And the people that people, many,
many people don't even know this after that movie. What,
the events that happened in the movie, lone survivor. You.
You went back. I was still in. Yeah. You went back,
you did more tourists in the, in the last one we went on was in, uh,
an Ambar province in Ramadi, Iraq. I was there. Oh, 6 0 7.
I relieved or ripped out. It was what we say. Uh, Jocko's platoon,
which is Jocko, Chris, Kyle and those guys. And it was hell. I mean,
it was the last stand for all. It was like, when we was like, Hey, let's fight
the sleeping in our body armor. I mean, I went out there,
we took 18 men and 14 of them got wounded. I didn't lose,
I didn't lose one guy the day before we redeploying one of my,
I had to point men. They like, they,
they run the platoon out and we're doing operations. I'll never,
I remember Shellenberger uh, I miss you bro. And then another,
a firefighter named [inaudible] man, bro,
I miss you. He was walking outside the tent and around,
came over from outside and hit him in the ribs.
And he was sitting next to one of the walls or next to a dumpster.
And one of our buddies comes walking. I was like, what's wrong with you?
He's like, man, I think somebody hit me with a rock and hit getting shot.
The x-ray is awesome. It's literally his spine. And then you see the 7, 6,
2 round right in front of it. They can't pull it out. It's been a capsulated.
It just has to sit there and he's fine now.
But there was a gunfight going outside the wall and he'd come over and hit
him. So the day before we were coming back, he got hit.
And then the other ones Shellenberger I remember he, he, we got back and we,
they had separated us and he went to a different team.
Is SDBS I know you're familiar with, with our submersible system. Yeah.
And two months or so later, maybe it might've been a little bit of a more,
he died underneath an aircraft carrier doing a dive.
So the Mo the darkest place on the planet is underneath an aircraft carrier at
night. It's a modern Marvel, 6,000 people and air wing. It's a floating city.
If you it's, it's unbelievable how it even holds in water. Yeah.
And a lot of the training, all of our training is,
is twice as dangerous as real life. We make it that way on purpose.
That's why more seals die in combat or in training than they do in combat.
Usually when you see seals dying in combat is a bunch of us. I mean, we,
we get hit with us. It was 19 extortion. It was 31.
And it just kinda, it's just the way we are,
but coming out of Afghanistan and then go,
and then rolling into Iraq. I remember seeing Jocko and he was just,
he had his war face on. So he didn't talk to me. Chocolate wakes up with.
His face on.
No, but I mean, imagine like, when there he's got permission to Jack you up,
you know what I mean, Jocko, he's gonna Jack you up. Right?
Like he go out and raise an American flag out in the middle of the day,
just to start just to get some, get it going. He's a real deal.
So when we found out we were going out there, I was like, yeah.
But then in my head,
I was apprehensive because I had just had my kicked real bad and going back,
I mean, I had to go back out here in Texas, man, if you get your butt whipped,
you go back in for more, when you can heal it up, did you feel that way? Yeah.
I had to immediately, immediately, I mean,
look at the fraternity I'm in and they never,
they never looked down on me because we, we went through buds together.
Bud stands for basic underwater, demolition seal training.
But it also means if you take everything away from us,
we're still buds because we survive in hell. And, uh,
when we went back out there, matter of fact, the first gunfight I ever got in,
I remember taking a knee and kind of sitting there and going, wait,
what in the hell am I doing here? I mean, it hadn't even been a year.
I couldn't even, I could barely walk. Really.
That's a whole other story altogether. But, um, w w we, anyways,
we got out of there and I remember we got back to the bay.
I'll tell you the story. We got back to the base of my new guys walked up to me.
It was our first gunfight and were like, Hey, I'll share. I was like, Hey,
how you guys doing? You good. I know you got into it. You didn't,
when you were supposed to do well done. And, and they were like, well, you know,
I was freaking out when the gunfire started, but then I looked up and you were,
you were calm and cool.
And you look back at us and you look forward and you look back and kind of made
a call. And we got out of there. It was smooth. And I was like,
keep thinking that brother. Cause when I, when that gunfire started,
I took that knee. I was like, what the hell? I mean, I was,
it was just like that first fight. Like when you start getting beaten up again,
and then you realize like, wait a minute, I'm a fighter. And then I was like,
okay, well, let's go. And then I stood up and made the call,
but there are in any situation you go into,
there's going to be that kind of hesitation. I hear people all the time. Like,
man, I've been training so long for this, but I still have the fear.
And I was like, well, that's different. That's anxiousness.
It runs off the same gland, fear and anxiousness off of your adrenals.
So in the beginning you have fear because you're not trained.
But then as you train, then it becomes anxious.
So when that first punches thrown, that first bullet flies, it's like, oh,
let's go. There's, it's a switch. It has to be that way.
We don't want to walk around and gauge the whole time.
There has to be a trigger.
So you can't be calm. You can't just be calm about it. Whereas you, you,
that uncomfortable feeling, right.
Whether it's a fight or what you've gone through, it's it's,
you can become.
So the difference in the ring and in a gunfight is that you have to talk,
like you're not talking to the dude. You're beaten up that, Hey dude,
watch his punt. So with us, when it goes down, you're gonna find, you're like,
okay, we need to move this way. And that's why we train like that in that fight,
you got to learn how to communicate. And that's what kind of slows you down.
And it's we do it so much.
So here's the difference between the seals and everybody else in our training,
kind of one of the things is, is in the beginning,
they wear us out all day for weeks on end and they tire us out, keep us up.
And then they start training us. Then you get your pistol.
So you're completely exhausted. And when you learn like that it's muscle memory.
So when we get engaged, our enemy will start attacking us. And then they'll,
they'll be like, oh, I'm wearing them down.
And then they think that's a good thing. It's not, it's actually a bad thing.
Cause that's when we start to come up and that's, that's,
that's the separation in our training as they've switched it.
I think that that's a lesson that people can,
that if you can apply that to your life,
that you're anything good that you're going to do is going to make you
uncomfortable. Anything difficult, all of it, whether even,
even like when you have a child like the birth of a child, it's uncomfortable.
It's a weird moment. Whether you try a new thing in life,
where you move to a new place where you, when you any,
any new business venture you end to enter into everything you do,
that's difficult is going to make you uncomfortable.
And that's the only way to get ahead. That's it?
But the most extreme version of it that we can all learn from is war.
The most extreme version of is when the consequences are your,
your existence, the, you don't, you don't exist anymore.
If you fail.
It's only uncomfortable cause you haven't been in it. Everything's like that.
Getting dressed in the morning and doing everything. I mean,
it's the same thing.
Imagine you had the capability of being trained in any scenario.
It's whether or not you want to get in, you want.
All of them, everything makes you uncomfortable. That's no.
Yeah. Cause I don't look at it as uncomfortable. Right. But yeah.
Exciting. The fear and everything like, oh, all right.
Somebody told you that you were supposed to,
my mother had breast cancer here reasonably bad. And uh,
she had to go get the surgery and matriarchal family.
So when mom's sick, Melanie has to take care of all that. I I'm kind of a,
when it comes to her or whatever, um, I'm just, uh, I'm weak,
but she recovered with me. So when I got her home, I was like, man,
check it out. Pain is pain. When we go down in the gym and I'll work out,
chefs as hard as I can. Then that night, the next day, I'm a two day guy.
So the pain feels like my chest is being ripped out.
I feel like sometimes I work out so hard and I bleed not puke that I'm being
torn apart. I love it because I know right after I get done with that,
I'm going to be stronger because I don't get battle weekend.
I get battle-hardened period.
I've had the bones knocked out of me on the ground, just crying.
But I knew that that was just sharpening me. I was like, here's,
what's going to happen. We're going to go. I'm putting you under the knife.
You'll wake up the next morning and be sore.
And you're going to lay up for a week.
It's just like we were in the gym and your chest is sore. One week later,
she whipped it like the flu. She was ready to leave. She was like,
I'm tired of being around you boy again. I mean, my mom is she's,
she's something that's awesome.
But pain is a matter of perspective of the person going through it.
Catch new episodes of the Joe Rogan experience for free. Only on Spotify.
Watch back catalog J R E videos on including clips,
easily seamlessly switch between video and audio experience on
Spotify.
You can listen to the JRE in the background while using other apps and can
download episodes to save on data costs. All for free.
Spotify is absolutely free.
You don't have to have a premium account to watch new JRE episodes.
You just need to search for the JRE on your Spotify app.
Go to Spotify now to get this full episode of the Joe Rogan.